On War (Oxford World's Classics)
War, in its highest forms, is not an infinite mass of minor events, analogous despite their diversities, which can be controlled with greater or lesser effectiveness depending on the methods applied. War consists rather of single, great decisive actions, each of which needs to be handled individually. War is not like a field of wheat, which, without regard to the individual stalk, may be mown more or less efficiently depending on the quality of the scythe; it is like a stand of mature trees in which the axe has to be used judiciously according to the characteristics and development of each individual trunk. 

On War (Oxford World's Classics)
Whenever he has to fall back on his innate talent, he will find himself outside the model and in conflict with it; no matter how versatile the code, the situation will always lead to the consequences we have already alluded to: talent and genius operate outside the rules, and theory conflicts with practice. 

Henry Kissinger - White House Years By Henry Kissinger
A policymaker’s greatest need for outside advice is in an intermediate realm between tactics and goals. Tactics are usually so dependent on the immediate situation that outsiders without access to cables can rarely make a significant contribution. At the other extreme, ultimate goals reflect philosophical perceptions and political necessities; while an adviser can provide some insights here, to be effective he must be conversant with the perceptions of the policymaker—changes of course require self‐confidence rather more than expert knowledge. 

Means of relief: absolute obedience, machinelike activity, avoidance of people and things that would demand instant decisions and actions. 

"Even the most courageous among us only rarely has the courage for that which he really knows." 

On War (Oxford World's Classics)
According to our classification, then, tactics teaches the use of armed forces in the engagement; strategy, the use of engagements for the object of the war. 

On War (Oxford World's Classics)
Practice and experience dictate the answer: ‘this is pos- sible, that is not.’ So he rarely makes a serious mistake, such as can, in war, shatter confidence and become extremely dangerous if it occurs often.

Friction, as we choose to call it, is the force that makes the apparently easy so difficult.

Fox vs the Hedgehog

On War (Oxford World's Classics)
If we then ask what sort of mind is likeliest to display the qualities of military genius, experience and observation will both tell us that it is the inquiring rather than the creative mind, the comprehensive rather than the specialized approach, the calm rather than the excitable head to which in war we would choose to entrust the fate of our brothers and children, and the safety and honour of our country. 

On War (Oxford World's Classics)
Therefore we would argue that a strong character is one that will not be unbalanced by the most powerful emotions. 

On War (Oxford World's Classics)
We now turn to strength of mind, or of character, and must first ask what we mean by these terms.

Not, obviously, vehement display of feeling, or passionate tem- perament: that would strain the meaning of the phrase. We mean the ability to keep one’s head at times of exceptional stress and violent emotion. Could strength of intellect alone account for such a faculty? We doubt it. Of course the opposite does not flow from the fact that some men of outstanding intellect do lose their self-control; it could be argued that a powerful rather than a capacious mind is what is needed. But it might be closer to the truth to assume that the faculty known as self-control––the gift of keeping calm even under the great- est stress––is rooted in temperament. It is itself an emotion which serves to balance the passionate feelings in strong characters without destroying them, and it is this balance alone that assures the domin- ance of the intellect. 

On War (Oxford World's Classics)
Genius consists in a harmonious combination of elements, in which one or the other ability may predominate, but none may be in conflict with the rest. 

“19. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near.”

Excerpt From: Sunzi. “Art of War (Barnes & Noble Classics Series).” Apple Books. 

“18. All warfare is based on deception.”

Excerpt From: Sunzi. “Art of War (Barnes & Noble Classics Series).” Apple Books. 

“ I tend to agree with the observation of an eighteenth-century European king who said, “The cruelest way to punish a province is to have it governed by professors.” With notable exceptions, such as Woodrow Wilson, great professors are seldom good executives. I have found that they tend to become mired in irrelevant trivia, to flit from one intellectual fad to another, and to lack the decisiveness needed in politics. ”

Excerpt From: Richard Nixon. “Seize the Moment.” Apple Books. 

“the helmsman must ride with the waves or he will be submerged with the tide”

Excerpt From: Henry Kissinger. “On China.” Apple Books. 

“statisticians are the kind of people who can melt shit into bullets.”

Excerpt From: Richard Nixon. “Seize the Moment.” Apple Books. 

“Just as the Chinese word for crisis is composed of the two characters for danger and opportunity”

Excerpt From: Richard Nixon. “Seize the Moment.” Apple Books. 

“But the Chinese leaders were brought up on the concept of shi—the art of understanding matters in flux.”

Excerpt From: Henry Kissinger. “On China.” Apple Books. 

On War (Oxford World's Classics)
‘The conventional army loses if it does not win. The guerrilla wins if he does not lose.’ HKiss 

On War (Oxford World's Classics)
l’offensive à l’outrance = offensive at all costs 

"You pay the same price for doing something halfway as for doing it completely; so you may as well do it completely"

“He who has learned to disagree without being disagreeable has discovered the most valuable secret of negotiation.”

“Did you do anything wrong?” he asked.
It was, I realized, the first time anyone had ever bothered to ask me that question. “No,” I said.”

Excerpt From: Ben Rhodes. “The World as It Is: A Memoir of the Obama White House.” Apple Books.

“Another often-asked question when I speak in public: “Do you have some good advice you might share with us?” 
Yes, I do. It comes from my savvy mother-in-law, advice she gave me on my wedding day. “In every good marriage,” 
she counseled, “it helps sometimes to be a little deaf.” I have followed that advice assiduously, 
and not only at home through fifty-six years of a marital partnership nonpareil. 
I have employed it as well in every workplace, including the Supreme Court of the United States. 
When a thoughtless or unkind word is spoken, best tune out. Reacting in anger or annoyance will not advance one’s 
ability to persuade.”

Excerpt From: Ruth Bader Ginsburg. “My Own Words.” Apple Books. 

“Resort to peace and friendship when temporarily obliged to do so; use war and defense as your actual policy.”

Excerpt From: Henry Kissinger. “On China.” Apple Books. 

“In your association with foreigners, your manner and deportment should not be too lofty, 
and you should have a slightly vague, casual appearance. 
Let their insults, deceitfulness, and contempt for everything appear to be understood by you and yet seem not understood, 
for you should look somewhat stupid.”

Excerpt From: Henry Kissinger. “On China.” Apple Books. 

“A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. 
So our prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts. 
We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every accident that befell us, 
like the grass which confesses the influence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our 
time in atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we call doing our duty.”

Excerpt From: Henry David Thoreau. “Walden and on the Duty of Civil Disobedience.” Apple Books. 

“I learned this, at least, by my experiment; that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, 
and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. 
He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to 
establish themselves around and within him; or the old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, 
and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies his life, 
the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, 
nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. 
Now put the foundations under them.”

Excerpt From: Henry David Thoreau. “Walden and on the Duty of Civil Disobedience.” Apple Books. 

“Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed, and in such desperate enterprises? 
If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. 
Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is not important that 
he should mature as soon as an apple-tree or an oak. Shall he turn his spring into summer? 
If the condition of things which we were made for is not yet, what were any reality which we can substitute? 
We will not be shipwrecked on a vain reality. Shall we with pains erect a heaven of blue glass over ourselves, 
though when it is done we shall be sure to gaze still at the true ethereal heaven far above, as if the former were not?”

Excerpt From: Henry David Thoreau. “Walden and on the Duty of Civil Disobedience.” Apple Books. 

“However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. 
It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. 
The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, 
thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poor-house. 
The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the alms-house as brightly as from the rich man’s abode; 
the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, 
and have as cheering thoughts, as in a palace.”

Excerpt From: Henry David Thoreau. “Walden and on the Duty of Civil Disobedience.” Apple Books. 

“No man loses ever on a lower level by magnanimity on a higher. 
Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. 
Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul.”

Excerpt From: Henry David Thoreau. “Walden and on the Duty of Civil Disobedience.” Apple Books. 